-In this section,
we will see
how to schedule jobs in Linux
by making use of Cron.
Consider an example
where the user called Michael
has to run the command uptime
and redirect the results
to a file called /tmp/system-report.txt
in the system.
This can be done
by running the uptime command
and redirect the standard output
to the file.
But what if this has to be run
only at 9:00 PM every day?
The hard way to do this
would be to log into the system
and manually run this command.
The better way is to use a Cron Job
to schedule this task
to be run at 9:00 PM every day.
With a Cron Job,
a user can specify any date,
time,
or frequency to schedule a task.
Once defined,
the system will execute the task
at the set time
without any human intervention.
This functionality is enabled
by the crond service
that runs in the background.
To schedule the job,
run the command crontab -e
with the user you want to run this task.
In this case,
we will run the command
with the user called Michael.
When you run this command,
it will open up the crontab
in the VI editor.
Navigate to the bottom of the file
and add the configuration
for our job to be scheduled
at 9:00 PM every day.
The first five fields
are used to specify
the exact schedule to run the task.
We will learn how to do that next.
The sixth field is the command to run,
which in our case
is the command called uptime,
and redirect the result
to the file /tmp/system-report.txt.
Now,
one thing to remember with Cron Jobs,
do not use sudo
with the crontab command,
or you will find that the job
will be scheduled
for the root user.
Now, let's see how the schedule works
and see the meaning
of the first five columns
in the crontab.
To schedule the job
to run on February 19,
at 10 minutes past 8:00,
you would put it this way.
If you want this to be scheduled
only if the 19th of February is a Monday,
then add an additional option
called weekday
and set it to 1 for Monday.
A star in these fields
indicates any value,
so it doesn't matter
what the weekday happens
to be on that day,
the job will run.
To run the job at 10 minutes past 8:00
on the 19th of all months,
set the month value to a star.
To run the job at 10 minutes past 8:00
on all days of all months,
set the day value to a star.
To run the job
at 10 minutes past all hours
on all days of all months,
set the hour value to a star.
To run the job
every minute of every hour
on all days of all months,
set the minute value to a star.
Your job will now run every minute.
What if you want to run the job
every two minutes?
You may configure that using step values
with a slash like this.
Star divided by 2 indicates
that the job should run
every 2nd minute.
The same can be used
for the other options as well.
Finally,
we can schedule our uptime command
to run every day at 9:00 PM
by specifying the schedule like this.
For reference on the usage,
use this table.
To list all the jobs scheduled in Cron,
you can run the command crontab -l.
One way to validate that the task
was indeed run at 9:00 PM
is to check the file
where the output is being appended.
Another way to check if the job
was run successfully
is to inspect the logfile
/var/log/syslog like this.
In this example,
we can see that the specific command
was run at the scheduled time
on the server.
Well, that's it for this section.
Head over to the hands-on labs
and create scheduled tasks
using Cron Jobs.